Let's talk about how we
are going to create a 3D scene.
Most of the JavaScript developers or
front end developers are not very used to
creating, working with the Web GL API.
And I've seen some very smart friends
of mine being intimidated by it.
So I would like to explain all of
the things that goes into a 3D experience.
And these things are same for all of the
libraries or engines that you might use.
So first, to create a 3D experience,
you have to create a scene object,
which is a kind of like a grouping thing.
And you can think of it as
a stage just like the one I'm in.
The next thing that you
need is the camera,
which will be the angle that you're
going to render the user's experience.
And if you are creating this
experience for a headset,
that will be the headset itself and
then the users point of view.
We need some lighting to be able
to see what's on our stage.
And finally, we need some actors and
3D objects in our environments.
And an object is made of two things.
One of them is the geometry description.
So this defines if it's a cube or
if it's the different objects and
also the material.
So if you look at
the right hand side of it,
this is the geometry
description with the lines.
And then on the right side we have
the materials and to create this and
have interesting object that we can see
you have to put them together in a mesh.
So we call that object a mesh.
And material is
the information that explains
how the light is reflected
off of something.
So if you have a very shiny surface,
if you define very shiny surface,
the lights will reflect more.
And you can define to break the lights,
with some bumps and some texture also.
So this is the experience
where you can could
actually look at both of the objects.
So you can see all of these triangles and
the points that they meet,
we call them vertices and
the lines are the edges.
We are not going to do anything.
Thankfully all of these things
are rendered by the libraries.
But it's good to know what
we are talking about.
Especially in terms of the performance,
if we have a lot of these triangles,
that means that
our experience is going to
be run little bit slower.
But if you have less of them then you
would have a little bit hoarse shape.
And in this example you can kind
of notice that it's not a circle.
And there's some hard edges on the site.
There are multiple libraries and
engines that we could use on the web.
One of them is BabylonJS.
BabylonJS is an open source project,
but it is part of Microsoft,
but it will always be
an open source project.
And to create a scene with Babylon first
we have the Babylon scene objects and
then it gets the engine
itself as the arguments.
And we can create a camera in this case,
what we have is arc rotate camera,
which means that it's
going to rotate an arc.
And fievel the attributes that
we give is the camera name and
the angles that it's going to
move right left or up down.
And the positioning.
So, the way we define position
is through X, Y and Z.
I'm missing the word, X, Y and
Z, point definition numbers.
And in this case,
vector three is in 000 which
means that we are at exactly
center of our whole scene.
The second thing we have is the lighting.
Here we have the hemispheric light.
Hemispheric light is
a very diffused lighting,
there is no shadows and you can think
of it is a very soft in equal light.
Again we give the name and
then we give a location.
So because this is the lighting light
source we put on the y axis low, higher.
Finally, Babylon gives us a method,
matched Boolean methods
to create our boxes.
So what it does under the hood is
creating that material for us, and
then creating the shape of the box.
And find we return the scene.
BabylonJS has this very
cool playgrounds where
you can actually edit
the code on your own line.
And save it and run it and when you're
done you can also download it and
run it in your local environments.
And we can see the coach that is
running over here on the right side.
Usually you can see this both together but
because of the size of my screen,
they are separated.
One really cool thing about playground is
also it gives us very
helpful tips when you're
trying to write your BabylonJS code.
If you press on control and
space then you get this clue
kind of thing opens up.
And you can start writing any of these.
And when you click on it,
it gives you a default values for
the name, for the vector and
as the scene that you're
working on currently.
So which is really cool.
You don't have to remember any of it or
write it all by yourself.
Here I have a note this is a scene
object gets the engine as an input, but
you don't have to worry about it when
you are writing it on playgrounds.